# MetaheuriscApplications
This respository discusses about the application of metaheuristic search algorithm. Metaheuristic techniques are applied in solving the "Knapsack" problem

Knapsack Problem Defnition Given n diferent items, where each item i has an assigned value (vi) and weight (wi), select a combination of the items to maximize the total value without exceeding the weight limitations, W, of the knapsack.

Initial solution: The items are sorted in decreasing values in which the most valuable item is selected until the sum of weights is reached. 

Evaluation Function is given in the code. If the total Weight of selected items surpasses the max Weight, the total value is assigned with -1 

K-flip Neighborhood functions are implied. The basic code provides the 1-flip neighborhood, which is solved by taking out most valuable item and sorting from most to least value, until maximum weight is reached. The 2nd neighborhood was created for k-flip neighborhood. The solution for 2nd neighborhood will have 2nd most valuable item taken out and then items are collected from most to least value. 

#1 Hill Climb with Best Search

#2 Hill Climb with First Improvements

#3 Local Search with Random Walks

#4 Local Beam Search 

Hill Climb with Best Improvement is employed in this problem as a base definition for hill climb (HCBI). Another definition for Local Beam Search (HCRW) generates given random restart, given threshold probability and parallel search. A random probability compares with the threshold probability. If the random probability passes the threshold, a parallel search loop is generated by selecting parallel neighbors and moving on. If any of the successors of all parallel search is solution, then it will return best solution. 

Otherwise, a normal Hill Climb with Best Improvement is still going on. The total value obtained from Hill Climb with Best Improvement is larger than the Best Value. If the condition is true, then the new solution sets are assigned with the best set.

The random approach is applied to initial solution. A random list of 5 items is created with values between 0 and 150. And then if the index in list x is aligned with random list, x is assigned as 1. Otherwise, x is 0. 



